Robert Hammond: Hey how's it going
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Good, how are you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Have you been since we last spoke
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What's going on with my
Robert Hammond: Relation to have
Robert Hammond: Just been trying to find some more work trying to find something local in town.
Robert Hammond: Decision that the relationship. Yeah. Oh, wow.
Robert Hammond: Well, the final job and saw her smoking right there. When I was a main dining room.
Robert Hammond: It's like smoke up the whole friggin room.
Robert Hammond: Right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: She's smoking.
Wow.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It feels, you know, creating that boundary in your relationship.
Robert Hammond: About good
Robert Hammond: First place, you know,
Robert Hammond: So we're doing it was just
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what exactly did you say to her.
Robert Hammond: I told her that was
Robert Hammond: Looking I'm tired of it.
Robert Hammond: It's just all her dollar crabs just, you know, take it for granted. So
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So that's taken a lot of self control to be in the exact same room with someone having the pair familiar right there and your presence and having that self control to
Robert Hammond: Resist the temptation to use
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then also in the relationship that you've been in for a long time.
Robert Hammond: Right. I know. I think that's, I shouldn't be goes over
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, I was gonna ask how you know how committed to you feel in this decision that you've made.
Robert Hammond: 100% in it so
Robert Hammond: You know, I don't want to hear there anymore. He is already over like
Robert Hammond: I've already added
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Some of this is working.
Robert Hammond: BEEN COMMUNICATING more in my groups.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So even though when initially brought you here was kind of like making sure that you know you're compliant.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're starting to see some of the benefits from coming and I also see you know improvement in your communication open up a little more good
Job.
Robert Hammond: Yeah, even though I don't didn't use. I know I'm going to come up dirty room smoked out will be bad. I even woke up feeling all pumped up
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, this, this has a lot of self control, like I said, because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In addiction, you know if you think about it like red light, green light yellow light in your addiction. Everything was gone.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: There were no
Robert Hammond: Limitations.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: There were no stops.
Robert Hammond: There were no protections
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right, you just
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Lived recklessly you were just on autopilot whatever you want it to do. You would do. And now in sobriety. It's like some yellow lights on red lights, something's telling you to slow down. Something's telling you this come to a stop and immediate stop.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I'm wondering
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What were some of those yellow light indications are telling you to slow down when it came to this relationship and that maybe you should just come to an abrupt spot the end it.
Robert Hammond: Pretty much all that all the fact that she was still using i mean that's there's still
Robert Hammond: A thing right there for me.
Robert Hammond: Know, it was like she was supposed to try to get clean to herself, but
Robert Hammond: She Jaden looking for that so
Robert Hammond: But now my letter does feel like more structured
Robert Hammond: Got more purpose to it.
Robert Hammond: Which I put everything back together.
Robert Hammond: Cuz I mean just watching her just it's just ridiculous like just seeing the same thing play over and over and over.
Robert Hammond: You know, it gets tiring.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: A lot of people are afraid to do whether their
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Struggle with addiction or silver and that's leave a toxic relationship.
Robert Hammond: I mean,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I was concerned with just the lack of respect that she had
The boundaries.
Robert Hammond: You know,
Robert Hammond: hitting you with the vehicle.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Just really no regard but we think about it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That like I said that addiction. She was on greenlight everything was gone.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: No rules or regulations and both of you can
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Someone's going to influence the other
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So it's good that you got out like could because over time.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Will it have been the possibility of her influence getting you to read that.
Robert Hammond: Right. Oh yeah, I felt that already just, you know, being around or maybe just as much about my skin.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that was probably a goal. I
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Wanted you to
Robert Hammond: You know,
Robert Hammond: slip up and
Robert Hammond: I know because I noticed that she was even stashing some of my spots.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Really
Robert Hammond: And I was like, she would act like I was losing it. And I was like, No, no frickin losing myself.
Robert Hammond: To my boss.
Robert Hammond: Though you know there was like a lot of red flags going up like everywhere. So, yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you said that you're now looking for work.
Robert Hammond: I'm trying to find something like more local
Robert Hammond: People don't want Toni Morrison to have a curfew basically
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How long is that for
Robert Hammond: All not on probation. It's just that the doctors only given me we've launched prescriptions.
Robert Hammond: So, okay.
Robert Hammond: So that kind of keeps me
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Are there any other areas in your life where you feel like you need to create some boundaries. This is a big step.
Robert Hammond: I think isn't normally all my relationships, basically, just as you know. So, my friends, you
Robert Hammond: Know, I noticed that I'm trying to take more advantage of new stuff to to friends just recently.
Robert Hammond: Asking me for stuff but never, never wanting to help out.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What kind of advice would you give to the young Robert
Robert Hammond: About relationships.
Just in general.
Robert Hammond: I don't know. There's so much that
Robert Hammond: I just done to keep his eyes open. You know that there's always gonna be somebody someone else.
Robert Hammond: Not to be stuck in a frickin toxic relationship or even have to be treated that way.
Robert Hammond: You know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Some hearing that maybe some low self esteem played a part in you stay in that relationship.
Robert Hammond: Oh yeah, well it's doing it just to basically hurt myself punish myself where my kids.
Robert Hammond: Like everybody said, you know, it's, that's not going to help you nothing so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We talked about the ship I talked about it with you, but I know I've definitely brought it up in my
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Groups, how
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Sometimes in the addiction and just so many things that you may have lost in the addiction.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Even
Robert Hammond: Enjoyable activities.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's not the same, because the newer an addict.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: There were things that was given
Robert Hammond: To me, I'm sorry, you
Robert Hammond: Cut out
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, so in the addiction, there was this thrill right you got this adrenaline rush from the high, you got the adrenaline rush from probably the risky lifestyle of getting the drugs and hiding the drugs and all this stuff and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In addition, the brain. It was being rewired
With addiction.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Your brain was sending signals of overload of dopamine and dopamine is that feeling of pleasure.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so when you become sober. Now your body shutter release natural amounts of dopamine and you never feel that same amount you did when you got high
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you may go through life feeling like it's blah, not really exciting. I'm just here I'm just existing
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And when you have that mindset, it would make sense that over time you would start thinking, well, maybe I deserve this.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And like you said, feeling less than that you didn't deserve deserve to be with
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Anyone else that was healthier. You deserve to be in this toxic relationship.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm wondering when the change pain for you to where you came to the realization that you no longer deserve this.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because it came before personal going up in that room.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right. That was the last straw. But when did you start feeling in your being that you deserve more
Robert Hammond: Honestly us even before waiting for her.
Robert Hammond: But
Robert Hammond: Like, like I said, I think it was just because the whole doozy. My kid is taking
Robert Hammond: Me back to
Robert Hammond: To where I was like way years before that.
Robert Hammond: When I was with my son's mom because it was the same thing. And you know, I was pretty crap and
Robert Hammond: Finally, when I got tired of it. That's when we had our problems, you know, because she she thought I was going to take it all that time.
Robert Hammond: You know, but I was already gotten sober and everything. So, yeah.
Robert Hammond: But
Robert Hammond: That was pretty much when I started, I know I did feel better better about myself.
Robert Hammond: I wasn't as depressed anymore.
Robert Hammond: That's weird.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Did you start changing what you did throughout the day. Did your routine come become a little different.
Robert Hammond: When resist really just recently well
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Over time because I find that, um, when we start
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: adding things to our routine that gives us pleasure and joy and excitement or purpose we start looking at life in a different way because it's like, Okay, if I can do well at this one of the magnet.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, it's just a different step in this progression. So
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I am the member and and that first time we have that session and how the press, you are when you thought about your son.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Even saying the word son was a trigger for you and you would become so depress it was hard to pull you out of it and it's still hurtful for you. But now you're able to talk about it with a little, a little more freely.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But I'm wondering if over time you started changing your routine and doing more things maybe working more doing something you enjoy to kind of get you out of that depressed mood. Was there anything that you did different
Robert Hammond: Different
Robert Hammond: Got a couple of good things happen. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That are those the things
Robert Hammond: Just the other day when I was eating some chicken nuggets from McDonalds.
Robert Hammond: I built into one that had a bone in it.
Robert Hammond: Right. And he ended up shipping, one of my cheese.
Robert Hammond: So,
Robert Hammond: So even though that was like a bad thing that still looking for the lawsuit on that.
Robert Hammond: record breaking be able to get my kid back. Oh, wow.
Robert Hammond: Not be able to get the attorneys and all that. Wow.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We did talk about small victories in my group so that it's funny that some of the things we're talking about in group coming up in this conversation.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because that was one of the things I asked the group. What are some small victories and someone had a situation to like that where it was.
Robert Hammond: Something that was negative terrible
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Thing but, in turn, it led to a positive outcome. So
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, hopefully that will yield a positive outcome for you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And we fat with the financial assistance, you'll have more ability to fight for your son.
Robert Hammond: Right.
Robert Hammond: I know I started looking into it too and everything. I even got a little bit closer because the restraining orders are off now.
Oh, good.
Robert Hammond: So,
Robert Hammond: I still haven't made contact yet, but I was getting ready to
Robert Hammond: Be nervous.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm seeing a
Robert Hammond: Different way because it's like
Robert Hammond: That whole time I'm sitting there punishing myself, you know, finally, you know, people told me, Well, what are you gonna do when you do get him.
Robert Hammond: And it's like, I have nothing because I find myself so much
Robert Hammond: So I don't even have nothing for him to, you know,
Robert Hammond: To come back to you. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you want to be a whole person when you get your son. You don't want to be this depressed.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Person that and how you assign is trying to figure out, okay, who is this person.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know you want him to be able to say, Wow, this is what I missed out on and getting to have a relationship with
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I share my screen with you because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I wanted to just go over some different things to find more ways for you to experience pleasure.
Robert Hammond: More ways for you to get that home.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that spark of excitement. These are a list of different things here.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: On the calendar on the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: On my screen. Is there anything that you that you do that you may not realize are actually ways to release that dopamine. We talked about an experience pleasure. Is there anything on this list that you already do.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You see it or using it as a woman.
Robert Hammond: No, I got it.
Robert Hammond: I'm sorry. So keep on calling and they keep playing it mutes out the other sound.
Robert Hammond: Oh god, I am i do not disturb on and still going through. I don't know what there.
Robert Hammond: Did you catch
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Me to repeat it.
Robert Hammond: One of these do I do that reduces building
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. Which ones do you do that is a pleasurable activity, you may not have thought that it was a pleasurable activity, but these things on a list are pleasurable activities and they can release some of those natural transmitters of dopamine that I talked about.
Robert Hammond: I do a lot of these already. Yeah, like what
Robert Hammond: I'd like I read the bike I go for walks
Robert Hammond: I don't really dog but
Robert Hammond: I try to try to stay next
Robert Hammond: To lifting weights.
Robert Hammond: I was just reading you're doing
Robert Hammond: Good to give a better, best, but
Robert Hammond: That was where my buddies dog.
Robert Hammond: And I was watching
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Did you ever think that some of these things that you were doing were actually things that you're adding into your routine to create pleasure.
Robert Hammond: Or, you know, just
Robert Hammond: Just cuz I had to do them like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So even when I think about how you you know washed your arm, your friends.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That that that allow for that nurturing component to come out that nurturing from component that you want to release because of your son. And so it gave you another opportunity to be a caretaker to be a nurturer and to help somebody because like you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Told me a few sessions ago when we watch the drama triangle. You said you identify as the rescuer so you kind of
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: End up helping people out, you know, it just they become a call you and so finding that balance is good. And so having opportunities where you can help other people also build up that self efficacy, which is confidence that I'm a good person.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And to pick things
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For where that imbalance comes when there's so many people that's calling on you, taking advantage, you're not eating.
Robert Hammond: Right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But the washing the dog. That sounds like a good opportunity to be in a nurturing role to help out. And it's not an ongoing commitment. It's like, all right, I'm helping out with this and
Gone.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And in the riding a bike in the swimming. Oh my gosh, the relaxation. The exercise is being released in your body.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That surge of
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Energy that comes to your body. Those are all the things
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What about music you listen to music.
Robert Hammond: Well, not that much.
Robert Hammond: And we're gonna watch the demo.
But
Robert Hammond: I did go on one of those on add James to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: eat ice cream, ice cream.
Robert Hammond: I'm somewhat. What is it,
Robert Hammond: That produces good
So, yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That you appreciate in life and just taking a moment to appreciate the small things that you're doing that is actually giving purpose making you feel connected to the community connected within who you are validating that inner top that says I'm good enough.
Robert Hammond: Right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what you would probably say to your younger self. You mentioned you will tell your younger self that there's more than one out there, you know, in addition to that, maybe you can say I'm good enough.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I deserve better.
Right.
Robert Hammond: That's right. One of my friends just just by
Robert Hammond: Calling me. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We're wrapping up in like five more minutes. Okay.
Robert Hammond: Sorry about that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Be okay
Robert Hammond: Yeah, I just don't know that I'll be I'll be done. Just a minute.
So, yeah.
Robert Hammond: Right, I do feel like I do see like a lot of things that I was overlooking taking for granted on this.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: There's one thing that you could pick from this list that you would like to incorporate or try, what would it be
Robert Hammond: I'd say probably 3060 starting like my own thing on the Internet.
Robert Hammond: Like my own company on the internet. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What company would it be
Robert Hammond: Not quite sure yet.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What was that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So would it be like someone watching it wouldn't. Would it be a YouTube channel or your business website.
Robert Hammond: I'd like to be a business website but
Robert Hammond: We're, you know, something that can
Robert Hammond: Come off of
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Specialty and the last time you had a session, you were under a car so vehicles, you do other thing.
Robert Hammond: I do just about everything. So, but I just like fixing things
Robert Hammond: Or whether it's car electronics
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What would you name that that website will be the name of your business.
Robert Hammond: I don't know if that's a rough one,
Robert Hammond: Cuz even so I'm like, I'm still like a movie I trade so
Robert Hammond: Then I have my plumbing degrees. Well,
Robert Hammond: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you have a variety of skill sets.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And it's just up to you to decide where you want to put those skills, where you want to put those resources.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right. Speaking of resources, what boundaries are you going to put in place to keep this relationship.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Ended
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because she doesn't think it's over.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: There may be some follow up from her. So now you start thinking preparation.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What boundaries, would you put in place, you know, if you fix someone's vehicle and you saw the reason why the vehicle was in such a bad state.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Would you just fix the vehicle and say, all right, you're on your way. Or would you tell the person. Hey, in the future, you want to do A, B, and C to avoid the situation.
Right.
Robert Hammond: Right, so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What, what measures are you going to put in place to avoid getting back to that toxic relationship.
Robert Hammond: I need, I need to let her know that I did is done and all that. But no, I don't want it on more than one
Robert Hammond: Because I know that's what's going to start doing that she's going to even try to bring up like just trying to be friends or whatever. No, that's all you're not going to work.
Robert Hammond: So sneaky straight away from it.
Robert Hammond: From going to act on it, which I'm not gonna deal with do any of that part but
Robert Hammond: Basically at the blocker from my phone and everything. Yeah, that's what I was thinking. Are you on social media.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or anything
Robert Hammond: Yeah, but she doesn't have my my things
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: No, that's, that's different.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I always struggled with that when I hear it so that maybe that was another time.
Robert Hammond: You guys want a relationship. But you weren't friends on social media. No, I don't. I usually don't go on Facebook or anything like that. Okay.
Robert Hammond: I can get it for my, my kid.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh, okay.
Robert Hammond: So you could be rejected old me
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Alright, so they know that it's over. Are you going to call first or if she calls, then you're going to this one. These are things you want to put in place.
Robert Hammond: Right. She had already text.
Robert Hammond: Texting kind of going off so like already
Robert Hammond: Already with the first X yard, you know,
Robert Hammond: Sit her mind so
Robert Hammond: I just got blown up or down, let her know
Robert Hammond: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Does she have access to where you live. Does she have a p or anything like that. No.
Robert Hammond: She doesn't have abused as an agrarian
Robert Hammond: I know I gotta watch out because I know I heard from other people that she's already stocks and
Robert Hammond: That's something so
Robert Hammond: Be prepared.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Be prepared and don't give in to the fact that because it can feel validating and it can feel
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Rewarding that you know someone's interested in you and they want to know what's going on. So, you know, that can be something that eventually over time, you may have given. So that's why in this season. It's important to occupy yourself distraction can be a very
Robert Hammond: healthy coping tool.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To keep yourself busy so that when you're by yourself. You're not thinking, well, you know, she's still interested. She's here.
Why not
Robert Hammond: Right, because I know that would be worth
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Thinking about a name that you want for that website.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Different things you want to put in place.
Robert Hammond: To protect yourself from that relationship. Oh.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So next time we meet, and I'm gonna have to let Dr alum unknown.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because we do every other week.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In March 24 I'm actually out of town.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The next point. The next time we would meet with be march 31
Robert Hammond: First
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And we can do
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Did you wanted to 530 or six
Robert Hammond: Whichever one. Okay, let's
Robert Hammond: Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right. And I'll let Dr. Our men now.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right. So when next time I'm you know
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Give me some ideas, you've thought about for the name of that website.
Robert Hammond: Okay, gotcha.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Alright, so I'll see you on the 31st at 530
Robert Hammond: Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: All right, take care.
Right.